---
layout: post
title: "Short review (interesting papers)"
date: 2019-01-01 00:00:00
tags: CV ML
---

<!--more-->

---

**Table of content** (*short-version*)
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

---

## UNIT 

- Research area
  - Image-to-image translation: mapping an image in one domain to a corresponding image in another domain
  - Unsupervised I2I: there exist no paired examples (this one)
- Challenging issues in I2I problems
  - I2I problem: key challenge is to learn a joint distribution of images in different domains (probabilistic modeling perspective)
  - Unsupervised I2I problem: two sets consist of images from two marginal distributions $$p(x_1),p(x_2)$$ (diff modal) $$\rightarrow$$ to ifner the joint distribution $$p(x_1,x_2)$$
    - Technical
      - Goal is to estimate the two conditionals $$p(x_2 || x_1), p(x_1 || x_2)$$ with learned I2I translation models $$p(x_{1 \rightarrow 2} | x_1), p(x_{2 \rightarrow 1} | x_2)$$
      - $$p(x_2 \| x_1), p(x_1 \| x_2)$$ are complex and multimodal distributions
  - The coupling theory [2]: there exist an infinite set of joint distributions that can arrive the given marginal distributions in general
    - Therefore, inferring the joint distribution from the marginal distributions is a highly ill-posed problem
- Method 
  - Make a *shared-latent space* assumption
    - A pair of corresponding images in different domains can be mapped to a same latent representation $$z$$ in a shared-latent space $$X$$
  - Basic concept: coupled GAN [3]
  - Architecture: 2 encoders, 2 decoders, 2 discriminators, high-level layers are tied
  - Role
    - $${E_1, G_1}$$: VAE for $$X$$
    - $${E_1, G_2}$$: Image translator $$X_1 \rightarrow X_2$$
    - $${G_1, D_1}$$: GAN for $$X_1$$
    - $${E_1, G_1, D_1}$$: VAE-GAN [4]
    - $${G_1, G_2, D_1, D_2}$$: CoGAN [3]
  - Loss 
    - $$L_1$$: $$L_{VAE_1}(E_1, G_1) + L_{GAN_1}(E_2, G_1, D_1)  + L_{CC_1}(E_1, G_1, E_2, G_2)$$
    - $$L_2$$: $$L_{VAE_2}(E_2, G_2) + L_{GAN_2}(E_1, G_2, D_2)  + L_{CC_2}(E_2, G_2, E_1, G_1)$$
- References
  - [1] Liu, Ming-Yu, Thomas Breuel, and Jan Kautz. "Unsupervised image-to-image translation networks." Advances in neural information processing systems. 2017.
  - [2] T. Lindvall. Lectures on the coupling method. Courier Corporation, 2002.
  - [3] M.-Y. Liu and O. Tuzel. Coupled generative adversarial networks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2016.
  - [4] A. B. L. Larsen, S. K. Sønderby, H. Larochelle, and O. Winther. Autoencoding beyond pixels using a
  learned similarity metric. International Conference on Machine Learning, 2016.
  
---

## MUNIT 

- Research area: Unsupervised I2I
- Challening issues
  - Existing methods: assume a deterministic or unimodal mapping (UNIT) mapping $$\rightarrow$$ fail to capture the full distribution of possible outputs
- Method
  - Make a *partially shared latent space* assumption
    - Assume that the image representation can be decomposed into a shared content code (domain-invariant) and a style code (domain-specific)
    - To translate an image to another domain, we recombine its content code with a random style code sampled from the style space of the target domain
    - We futher assume that $$G_1, G_2$$ are deterministic functions and have their inverse encoders $$E_1, E_2$$
    - Note that although the encoders and decoders are deterministic, $$p(x_2 \| x_1)$$ is a continuous distribution due to the dependency of the style code
    - Enable many to many cross domain mapping
  - Architecture
    - Content encoder (downsampling and residual block) - content code - Residual block*(combine) - upsampling
    - Style encoder (downsampling, GAP, and residual block) - style code - MLP - Adain parameters*(combine) - upsampling
    - Randomly draw style code from prior distribution $$N(0,1)$$
      - Although the prior distribution is unimodal, the output image distribution can be multimodal thanks to the nonlinearity of the decoder
  - Loss
    - Bidirectional reconstruction loss: ensures the encoders and decoders are inverses
    - Adversarial loss: matches the distribution of translated images to the image distribution in the target domain
- Related work: BicycleGAN that can model continuous and multimodal distributions, but, it requires pair supervision

